Let's just say somebody was diagnosed
with stage one cancer. It's not
metastatic yet. The stage one, found a
tumor. How do you challenge the
conventional cancer treatment for that?
So, what we do uh in a situation like
that and we have some big papers coming
out, my press pulse paper I did with
some physician friends of mine. Uh and
we have a really big one coming out any
day now on managing glyopblasto. But,
but it could also be it also could be
used for almost all cancers. Uh we just
put for GBM because nobody has anything.
We haven't made an advance in
glyobblastoma 100 years. So, uh there's
no advance in that field. We're going to
we're going to make a huge advance in
that once they once they come to realize
that it's a metabolic a metabolic
disease. Okay. So, uh normally it would
be diagnosed as a a lump. Uh um some
some indication that there would be
something going on. Person goes to the
physician, they do something. I don't
know they they have a lesion or
something like this. We're going to use
non-invasive PET scan, MRI, CAT scan,
something something that could identify
where this is maybe and get an idea from
the out an outside look at this. The
last thing we want to do is stick it. We
don't want to take a biopsy of it
because you could potentially spread it.
Uh, and there's dozens of papers in the
scientific literature showing that uh
biopsies can spread cancer. So, we we
don't want to do that. Not in a lot of
everybody, but but but you know, one out
of 500 people, why would you put them at
risk for metastatic cancer and potential
a life-threatening illness just because
you want to look at some mutation and
things that are largely irrelevant? So
you you just assume, okay, if it's a
benign tumor, uh we we what we do is we
is we get a full blood work. I don't do
this. I'm not a physician, but my
friends do. Uh we get full comprehensive
blood work. Uh and then we bring uh the
glucose ketone index gluc the the ratio
of glucose to ketone bodies in the blood
using a the glucose meter ketone meter
and bring it down and then start looking
at this tumor this go back and see if it
changes uh it's either not going to get
smaller most of the time it gets
smaller. Now if I if I if if you shrink
it down, don't forget what you're doing
is you're shrinking down any
inflammation, edema, anything associated
with the micro environment of that
tumor. And if you look at the uh imaging
now, you see changes because this person
has gone through uh a restricted diet
that it doesn't have to be keto. It can
be any diet that brings your GKI,
glucose ketone index to 2.0 or below.
And you do that for 10 or 14 days. And
then you say, "Oh my god, this tumor's
changed." Now the surgeon or the
oncologist has the option to go in and
take it out completely. Take it out
completely. Just do a lumpctomy or a
surgical procedure that because now the
tumor is circumscribed. Now it's
shrunken down. The inflammation is
reduced. Edema is red. Anything that
would look pathological is significantly
reduced. then your probability of
long-term survival or possible cure is
greatly enhanced. Now, if the person has
a stage 4 tumor where you already have
met metastatic lesions outside the area
where it where it's supposed to be, then
we have to be aggressive. What we do is
we do the same kind of a thing. Uh, and
now we bring in glutamine targeting
drugs, drugs that will now go after the
glutamine. So, you bring the blood sugar
down, get the low glucose ketone index
down real low. Good. We're shutting off
the glucose availability to this tumor
and now we're going to come in with
these strategic drugs mostly uh re re
repurpose drugs. Uh right, they don't
cost much money. Um and then you're
going to start hammering uh the glue the
glutamine availability with the glucose
availability at the same time
transitioning the entire body over to
ketones and fatty acids which are burned
by our normal cells. Cells that have
normal mitochondria can burn the ketones
and the fatty acids where the tumor
cells can't. So the tumor cells are now
put at a competitive disadvantage and
you bring down the inflammation. You
start to and then you monitor again
non-invasively. You begin to monitor
those PET spots that you see on PET
scan. Uh they start to disappear. Where
did they go? What happened? You know all
of these lesions start to disappear. Now
and sometimes all lesions disappear
maybe except for one and then you can go
in and surgically remove that. On the
other hand uh like we have seen some of
those lesions never go away. they just
sit there in a kind of a dormant uh
indolent uh state. Um then you have to
consider options as you go forward. Like
we had a brain cancer guy with a
glyobblasto that we never went away. It
just it it just grew so indolent. It he
lived 10 years um uh with this
glyopblasto um but he died from a
surgical a hemorrhage from a surgical
small surgical debulking procedure but
the tumor never killed him. So, um, but
he never he lived with it. He lived 10
years. He had two kids. He got married
and all this. He if he did standard of
care with with radiation and chemo up
front, they said he was going to live
nine months or 12 months at the most. He
lived 10 years because he avoided the
radiation and all that other stuff. So,
so he also had an IDH1 mutation which
gave him a a benefit, but that beside
the point, but we're seeing more and
more people live longer with a higher
quality of life. Does any does any of
this cure anybody? Um, I I don't know.
Uh, all I know is I get emails back from
people that should be dead. They're
still alive. But it could come back at
any time and kill them. I I don't know.
But but the issue here is we're we're
seeing uh longer survival with a higher
quality of life. Whether any of it leads
to a cure. Everybody wants a cure. A
cure. You be happy you're living longer
and a higher quality of life, you know.
Correct. And who knows if you die from
at 98 years old from a heart attack when
you had cancer at 35, then we can say
this guy was cured. But but but but we
don't know and uh we just know that we
can we we have a much better chance of
putting cancer in a in a less aggressive
more indolent state. Uh whether you get
a cure or not, we don't know. Uh but you
certainly feel a hell of a lot better.
Your energy is back. Your your overall
life is improved. Uh but whether it's
cure or not, I don't know. Um so this is
where the future is going to be. The
future will be metabolic therapy uh for
cancer. And we can bring in that's kind
of like precision medicine. That's kind
of like what's happening now, but it's
only reserved for high income earners
really. Well, that precision medicine is
is brutally imprecise. That's why we
have hyperprogressive disease with these
imunotherapies. So, such as uh
hyperprogressive disease is where the
therapy kills you faster than the
disease does. It's a term
hyperprogressive disease, right? So,
when it's so precise, let let's look at
the precision. Wow, we have a marker on
a tumor cell. We're going to use this
imunotherapy just to kill those tumor
cells. And sometimes you do, sometimes
it works about 20% of the time you do
pretty well. But sometimes they have
those same markers on your liver and
kidney. So you blow out your liver and
kidney while you're trying to okay, we
we got rid of your tumor, but we also
blew out your liver and kidney and now
you die from kidney and kidney and liver
failure. So how precise is that, right?
So I mean they're doing some crazy
things. You have no idea the crazy stuff
they're doing in the oncology standards.
They're trying to make vaccines against
uh mutations on on some of these tumor
cells when the same mutations exist in
normal cells. Can you believe this? I
mean, I can't believe how little these
the guys that are in the top medical
school know about cancer. It's scary.
It's actually scary when you think about
it. So, uh, and then and the poor guy on
the street has no clue. He runs into
these places thinking these guys know
what they're talking about. And many
times they do. I don't want to make it
look like none of these guys know what
they're doing, but we got 1700 people a
day dying. 70 an hour. So, somebody
doesn't know what the hell they're
doing. So, and this shouldn't be this
these deaths. These deaths should not be
happening like this. This is not
correct.